\chapter{Introduction}

\begin{FraseCelebre}
  \begin{Frase}
    Who Watches the Watchmen?
  \end{Frase}
  \begin{Fuente}
    Watchmen - Alan Moore
  \end{Fuente}
\end{FraseCelebre}

Scientific research nowadays is based on publications in journals with a high
impact factor\cite{doi:10.1001/jama.295.1.90}, the most well-known is the
Journal Citation Reports (\emph{JCR}). This factor was originally determined by
the Science Citation Index, born in 1955\cite{garfield2007evolution} but
nowadays it is managed by a private company dedicated to benefit from the work
of researchers\cite{toledo2011book}. This poses two important problems when it
comes to entering the world of academic research:

The first is that scientific journals that want to maintain their impact factor,
have to make sure that the articles that come out in their issues have a large
number of citations, so they are always going to look for novel and high-impact
articles. Therefore, the editors of these journals will have a network of
reviewers on which they can trust to review the article. But sometimes these
reviews are not entirely objective, there are many cases of unfavorable reviews
due to gender causes, especially in scientific fields
\cite{wenneras2001nepotism}.

Besides, it is necessary to consider that the time of revision for an article is
excessively long, causing the process of academic investigation being quite slow
\cite{huisman2017duration}.

The second problem is that the benefits of the scientific distribution are
centralized in publication systems, nor the authors, the reviewers or the
readers get money from it. Today, with electronic paper distribution,
universities purchase site licenses for online access to journal contents. This
system implies an additional cost for the universities who want to advance in
their research fields and does not have enough money for it. However, site
licenses are not always disadvantageous. Some journals issued by private
companies and universities adjust their prices to maximize subscriptions
\cite{bergstrom2004costs}. But generally, people who earn money from this
paper-based system only act as an intermediary between the authors, the
reviewers and the readers.

The Internet offers vast new opportunities to interact with total strangers.
These interactions can be fun, informative, even profitable. But they also
involve risk. Is the advice of a self-proclaimed expert at expertcentral.com
reliable? Will an unknown dotcom site or eBay seller ship items promptly with
appropriate packaging? Will the product be the same one described online?
\cite{resnick2000reputation}


%%%
%%% Local Variables:
%%% mode: latex
%%% TeX-master: "../Tesis.tex"
%%% End:
